## Description
This project provides a number of methods to generate and save images, or load and edit
images. The project can be launched in one of two ways: interactive mode or script mode. You specify
which mode you would like to run it in as a command line argument with either "-script filepath" or
"-interactive". The filepath in the script argument is a path to a text file that contains commands
for operations. Those commands are described below in the supported commands section. If the user chooses to
run it in interactive mode a GUI is launched that the user can interact with to do operations. The
GUI has menus, buttons, and a display box to show the output image after each operation. There is
a place in the GUI where the user can write a batch script in a provided window and run it that way
as well.

## Background:
An image is a series of pixels.  Each pixel is located at a specific row and column in the image. 
Each pixel's color is represented with three numbers - one number for each color channel 
(red, green, and blue).

Images can be generated by producing a specific series of pixels.  Images can be edited by changing 
the channel values in a given series of pixels.

## Features
This project provides a number of features to generate images, including generating horizontal or 
vertical rainbow patterns, and a checkerboard pattern. If the user is in script batch mode
then they can also generate a French flag, a Greek flag, and a Swiss flag. These flag options are
not offered in the GUI menus or buttons because we were told it was not required to be part of our
final project. We left it as possible in the script mode so we wouldn't have to edit the previously
written function in the controller.

This project provides a number of features to edit images, including blurring an image, sharpening 
an image, dithering an image, creating a mosaic from an image, changing the color of an image to 
greyscale, and changing the color of an image to sepia.

In GUI mode other features offered are "undo" of an operation and "redo" of an operation.

## Script Mode Use
To use this program in batch mode create a batch type text file that contains the series of commands 
you wish the program to execute.  Each command must be on its own line.  Commands with arguments must 
appear on the same line separated by one or more spaces.  All supported commands are described below.  
The program will continue to process commands until there are no more lines in the file, or it 
reaches a line in the file beginning with the command "quit". 
 
To run the program from the MCVDriver main method, put the argument "-script" and
set the file source path for the command text file as the second program argument for the 
MCVDriver class main method.  Then run the MCVDriver main method.

To run the program from the command line, download the Assignment10.jar file.  In the command line, 
type "java -jar" followed by the jar file name, "-script", and the batch command 
file name (each separated by a space).

## Interactive Mode Use
If the user chooses to run the program in interactive mode a GUI will be launched. The image they
are operating on will be displayed in the left panel and in that panel there are buttons for loading
an image, saving an image, undo, and redo. Undo and redo can only be used after some filter operation
has been done (blur, sharpen, greyscale, sepia, mosaic, or dither). When multiple operations have 
been done then multiple undo's are possible. When multiple undo's have been done then multiple 
redo's can be done. When a new image is loaded then you cannot "undo" or "redo" until an operation
has been done on that new image.

The operations described above are also available in a menu bar at the top of the GUI. In addition
to those operations there is a Generate option in the menu bar where you can generate vertical
and horizontal striped rainbows as well as a checkerboard pattern. All of these generate options
are of a user specified size. When the option is chosen a pop up box will prompt the user to enter
the desired size.

Lastly in the right panel of the GUI is a Batch Script text box. The user can type in commands in
the same format as the script text file described above and when they hit the "run batch script"
button the script will run. The results will not be visible to the user inside the GUI.

To run the program from the MCVDriver main method, put the argument "-interactive" in the run 
configuration and run the MCVDriver main method.

To run the program from the command line, download the Assignment10.jar file. In the command line,
type "java -jar" followed by the jar file name and "-interactive" (separated by a space).


#### Supported Commands
load filepath/image.png
- Use the "load" command to load an image from the filename that follows.  See Java ImageIO 
documentation for supported file formats (for example, in Java 8 visit 
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/imageio/package-summary.html).
- Exception will be thrown if file does not exist or cannot be read
- When an image is loaded, it is considered the "current" image.  It is the image that will be edited 
if any edit commands follow.  If a second image is loaded later, the second image will become the "current" image.

save filepath/image.png
- Use the "save" command to save an image to the filename that follows.  See Java ImageIO 
documentation for supported file formats (for example, in Java 8 visit 
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/javax/imageio/package-summary.html).
- Exception will be thrown if no image has been loaded or generated in the model prior to calling this command.
- Images not saved before loading or generating a new image will be lost.

blur
- Use the "blur" command to blur the current image.

dither
- Use the "dither" command to dither the current image.

greyscale
- Use the "greyscale" command to make the current image greyscale.

mosaic seed
- Use the "mosaic" command to make a mosaic style image from the current image.
- Enter an integer value greater than 0 as the "seed" value for the mosaic.  A small seed creates a 
mosaic with large tiles and a large seed creates a mosaic with small tiles.
- Exception will be thrown if no seed argument follows the command, if seed is not an integer greater 
than 0, or if the seed is larger than the number of pixels in the current image.

sepia
- Use the "sepia" command to make the current image sepia tones.

sharpen
- Use the "sharpen" command to sharpen the current image.

checkers size
- Use the "checkers" command to generate a black and white checkerboard image.
- Enter an integer value greater than 0 for the pixel width of one square on the checkerboard.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 0.

horizontalRainbow size
- Use the "horizontalRainbow" command to generate an image of horizontal rainbow stripes.
- Enter an integer value greater than 15 for the pixel width of of the image.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 15.

verticalRainbow size
- Use the "verticalRainbow" command to generate an image of vertical rainbow stripes.
- Enter an integer value greater than 15 for the pixel width of of the image.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 15.

frenchFlag size
- Use the "frenchFlag" command to generate an image of the French flag.
- Enter an integer value greater than 2 for the pixel width of of the image.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 2.

greekFlag size
- Use the "greekFlag" command to generate an image of the Greek flag.
- Enter an integer value greater than 26 for the pixel width of of the image.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 26.

swissFlag size
- Use the "swissFlag" command to generate an image of the Swiss flag.
- Enter an integer value greater than 31 for the pixel width of of the image.
- Exception will be thrown if no size argument follows, or if size is not an integer greater than 31.

quit
- Use the "quit" command to exit the program.
- Remember to use the "save" command before exiting! 

## Updates
We added an IView interface and a View class (which implements that interface) to our program. The
View uses the Java Swing library. We also added a new driver that takes different command line 
arguments than previously-- the ones described earlier. This new driver now initializes the view
if necessary (ie when the user selects interactive mode).

## Road Map
Currently, this project supports generating these images:
- Horizontal rainbow (7 stripes in ROYGBIV order)
- Vertical rainbow (7 stripes in ROYGBIV order)
- Checkerboard (black and white)
- French flag (in batch file only)
- Greek flag (in batch file only)
- Swiss flag (in batch file only)

Currently, this project supports these types of image edits:
- Blur
- Dither
- Greyscale
- Mosaic
- Sepia
- Sharpen

All features of this project and the structure (model, view, and controller) are now complete.

## Contributors
Carter Ithier and April Gustafson

## Image Terms of Use
All images used for this project are owned by April Gustafson and are authorized for use in the project. 
